Refactor functions used to construct the molecular Hamiltonian (#735)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/introduction/chemistry.rst

Building the electronic Hamiltonian
-----------------------------------

The ``qchem`` module provides access to a driver function :func:`~.molecular_hamiltonian`
to generate the electronic Hamiltonian in a single call. For example,

.. code-block:: python

>     h, n_qubits = qml.qchem.molecular_hamiltonian(

Reviewer: nice!

        name='h2',
        geo_file='h2.xyz',
        charge=0,
        mult=1,
        basis='sto-3g',

>         nact_els=2,

Reviewer 2: I really don't like `nact_els` and `nact_orbs`. Why not just `active_electrons = 2` and `active_orbitals = 2`? I think this is clear and simple

Reviewer: Agree 💯

Author: I agree with the long names. The prefix "n" is important to make the distinction "number of ..", otherwise it may be difficult for the user to differentiate at glance if `active_orbitals` refers to the number of active orbitals or to an array with the indices of the active orbitals. This is kind of standard in OpenFermion as well, indeed, this is coming from the input style of qchem packages. This way it is easier to educate the user that the prefix "n" is always an integer value referring to a "number of ...", thoughts ?

Reviewer: I tend to disagree; if I see `active_electrons [int]:` in the documentation, the `int` indicates to me that this refers to a 'number of...'.

We use this is a lot in PennyLane; sometimes `wires=` is the number of wires, sometimes it is a list of wires:

```python
dev = qml.dev("default.qubit", wires=2)
obs = qml.Hermitian(A, wires=[0, 3])
```

But I can't speak too much for the standard in qchem!

Author: That is true. But for example, the function `active_space` returns precisely the indices of the core and active orbitals. Imagine having something like this:

```
core_orbitals, active_orbitals = active_space(n_electrons, n_orbitals, active_electrons=2, active_orbitals=2)
```
This looks confusing to me but if this is OK with most of you, democracy now!.

Reviewer: @agran2018 your code example definitely makes me 🤔 !

I'm going to vote to abstain 😆

Reviewer 3: It seems that there are two different properties that should be named: the "number" of active electrons and the "indices" of active electrons. Maybe one can use `active_electrons` for the number and `electron_indices` for the indices. I think the problem is to find two good names. Same applies to the active orbitals.

Author: Thanks @soranjh. This sounds even more confusing to me as we don't assign indices to electrons but to orbitals. In general taking about electrons/particles without "n" is weird/counter-intuitive. Let's give it a try and let's see how it looks.

Reviewer 3: Correct, I meant orbital indices.

        nact_orbs=2
    )

where:

* ``h`` is the qubit Hamiltonian of the molecule represented as a PennyLane Hamiltonian, and

> * ``n_qubits`` is the number of qubits operators needed to represent it.

Reviewer 3: "qubit operators" ?

Reviewer 2: I personally prefer `nr_qubits` since it naturally reads as "number of qubits". My preference would be to just use `qubits`. Also I agree with Soran, it's awkward to say qubit operators. Why not just say "the number of qubits needed to represent it"?

Internally, :func:`~.molecular_hamiltonian` calls the following functions in order
to generate the qubit Hamiltonian:

.. currentmodule:: pennylane_qchem.qchem

.. autosummary::

    read_structure
    meanfield
    active_space

>     decompose_molecular_hamiltonian

Reviewer 2: I would propose that we avoid using more than one underscore "_" in naming functions or variables. How about just `decompose`? Since the input is a Hamiltonian, it should be clear that we are decomposing the Hamiltonian

Author: @ixfoduap `decompose` does not tell much to me. I don't like too long names as well but this function is constrained to decompose the molecular Hamiltonian as it relies on OpenFermion `MolecularData` class. Also, this function is marked for **deprecation** after the generalization of the `observable` function to build general Hamiltonians. Let me know if you want to go with `decompose`.

Reviewer 4: A user only has to learn what an argument means once, but has to type it every time :laughing: : 
It's ok if an argument name gives 90% of the intuition of what it does to the user, but is much easier to type repeatedly (the docstring is the place for fully explaining)

So in this case `decompose` does a good job (and the docstring can explain that it applies to that particular class)

Solving the Hartree-Fock equations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :func:`~.meanfield` function uses the `OpenFermion-PySCF <https://github
.com/quantumlib/OpenFermion-PySCF>`_ and `OpenFermion-Psi4 <https://github
.com/quantumlib/OpenFermion-Psi4>`_ plugins to solve the Hartree-Fock equations for the molecule
using the electronic structure packages `PySCF <https://github.com/sunqm/pyscf>`_ and `Psi4
<http://psicode.org/>`_, respectively.

For this, it is required to specify a string to label the molecule. Furthermore, the net charge,
the `spin multiplicity <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiplicity_(chemistry)>`_ and the  `atomic basis functions <https://www.basissetexchange.org/>`_ can also be specified.

.. code-block:: python

    geometry = qml.qchem.read_structure('h2o.SDF')
    hf_file = qml.qchem.meanfield(
        'water',
        geometry,
        charge=0,
        mult=1,
        basis='sto-3g',
        package='pyscf'
    )

> The output variable ``hf_file`` stores the full path to the file ``'water.hd5'`` containing

Reviewer: By 'full', do you mean 'absolute'?
```suggestion
The output ``hf_file`` is the absolute path to the file ``'water.hd5'`` containing
```

the Hartree-Fock electronic structure of the water molecule.

Mapping the Hamiltonian to the Pauli basis
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The function :func:`~.active_space` is used to create an `active space <https://en.wikipedia
.org/wiki/Complete_active_space>`__  by classifying the Hartree-Fock molecular orbitals as
core, active, and external orbitals. Within this approximation, a certain number of *active electrons* can populate the *active orbitals*.

.. code-block:: python

>     water = MolecularData(filename=hf_file)

Reviewer: This class is from OpenFermion right? might be good to have the import present
```suggestion
    from openfermion import MolecularData
    water = MolecularData(filename=hf_file)
```

    core, active = qml.qchem.active_space(
        water.n_electrons,

>         water.n_orbitals,

Reviewer 2: I would prefer to rename `n_electrons` and `n_orbitals` to just `electrons` and `orbitals`

Author: My comment above regarding the "n" prefix also applies here.

Author: Indeed, here we don't have this flexibility as `n_electrons` and `n_orbitals` are attributes of `water` whose type is `MolecularData`, the OpenFermion class.

        nact_els=2,
        nact_orbs=2
    )

Once we have defined the active space, :func:`~.decompose_molecular_hamiltonian` calls
OpenFermion to generate the second-quantized fermionic Hamiltonian
and map it to a linear combination of Pauli operators via the `Jordan-Wigner
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jordan%E2%80%93Wigner_transformation>`__ or `Bravyi-Kitaev
<https://arxiv.org/abs/1208.5986>`__ transformation. For example,

.. code-block:: python

    qubit_hamiltonian = qml.qchem.decompose_molecular_hamiltonian(
        hf_file,
        mapping='jordan_wigner',

>         core=core,

Reviewer 2: This is something I'm not a fan of, using `variable=variable`. This seems to arise from the fact that `core` and `active` are keyword arguments in the function, but I don't see a reason why this should be the case. If we remove this, we can simply pass `core` and `active` directly.

Reviewer: Are `core` and `active` required arguments or optional arguments? If they are required, they should be positional, but if they are optional, best practice to keep them as keyword arguments in the signature.

Author: I already discussed this with @ixfoduap

Reviewer: What was the solution?

Author: keeping the keywords
